
Education is not luxury, but a basic human right an as such should  be free for everyone irrespective of personal wealth. Do you agree or disagree?
----------
I definitely agree with that opinion. In the world, there are few main groups of countries which differ by type of providing education. The first group of countries provides only paid education at all levels of studying and it doesn't matter we talking either about schools or about universities. 
Those countries, which probably, have great economic development and their people definitely doesn't starve and can spend enough money for the education of their children. But the country can not be perfect and even in such a rich country can be found citizens that can't ensure paid education for their children. The second group of countries may by divided into many smaller subgroups. Because this type of countries consists of countries that provide a mix of paid and free educations and they all can be differ by the amount of free educational institutions for example. I suppose I can distinguish one subgroup that provides free education for all its citizens and expensive education with better conditions for wealthy people. And from my perspective, this is the best way to organize relation between free and paid education. Because better condition requires more money for ensure. The third group contains countries that provide mostly free education and only part of students at high institutions have to paid for their learning. Let's start talk specifically and consider certain country, such as Ukraine. We can see that secondary education in this country is conpletely free with no exceptions. Higher education in Ukraine provide an owerwhelming amount of places in each university and small part paid places. There is another important fact about Ukraine education, in this country almost no difference between free and paid places for education. Of course, there are paid institutions that provide more efficient teaching than in state universities, but either amount of such a great institutes to small, or price for education to big, therefore we can confidently neglect them. So, in my opinion, no one can forbid the establishment of paid institution, but government have to provide free secondary education because society requires it.
